INSTALLATION OVERVIEW

To install Links, you'll need:

  * OCaml
  * A webserver that can run CGI programs.

If you want to use a database, you should have the database as well as
the OCaml bindings for it. Database systems currently supported by
Links are PostgreSQL, MySQL, and SQLite.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

If you can run OCaml, you should be able to compile and run Links. It
is known to build from source with OCaml versions 3.08.3 and greater
on Linux, Cygwin, and MacOS X.

Windows users are encouraged to use the Links binary once it becomes
available. It is possible to use the MSVC version of OCaml to build
from source, but this requires Cygwin or MinGW to be installed. Also,
the MSVC binary version of OCaml 3.09.0 on Windows will not build
Links from source. This is due to a bug in OCaml.

INSTALLING OCAML

Visit http://caml.inria.fr/ and look for a "Download" link. Download
the latest stable OCaml package and follow the instructions provided
with the OCaml for installing it on your platform.

BUILDING LINKS

To build, move to the Links source directory (wherever this INSTALL
file is) and run the following:

  $ make nc

If this fails, try:

  $ make 

This builds the byte-code version of Links, which should work on more
platforms than the other (native-code) version.

Now you should have an executable in the current directory called
`links'.

RUNNING LINKS

Start up the interactive interpreter using:

  $ ./links

You should see a Links prompt like this:

  links> _

Try evaluating some simple expressions. See the manual for more info
on writing Links expressions. Use 

  links> @quit; 

to exit the interactive interpreter.

To run Links web applications, see RUNNING WEB APPLICATIONS, below.

RUNNING THE TESTS

Note: make requires a unix-like environment in
order to run (this includes Cygwin and MinGW on Windows).

To check whether Links is working under your platform, try running the
automated tests as follows:

  $ make test-raw

This should give you a lot of output.

RUNNING WEB APPLICATIONS

Note: the install-demos script requires a unix-like environment in
order to run (this includes Cygwin and MinGW on Windows).

Links works as an ordinary interpreter for CGI programs. To run a
Links web program, first make sure you have a working web server
that's configured to run CGI programs. Most web servers are configured
to do so by default. Refer to the documentation for your web server to
find out where to install CGI programs. Here, we'll call this
directory the cgi-bin directory, although it may not be called that on
your system; this is fine: just use the name of that directory
whenever we refer to `the cgi-bin directory'. 

To install the Links examples in your web directory and configure them
for your Links interpreter, just run

  $ ./install-examples

in the links directory. This will ask a number of questions about
where to install the examples. It installs:
 - the examples in your cgi directory
 - the javascript library in the specified directory
 - the sources and an HTML file in the specified directory
 - a configuration file in the cgi directory 

Now point your web browser at one of these examples. The URL for the
program will depend on your web server configuration and the place
where the demo was installed. Refer to your web server documentation
to find out how URLs on your server are formed. It may be something
such as

    http://localhost/cgi-bin/draggable.cgi

You should see the example right away. Have fun playing with it!

When you write your own Links programs, to use them under your web
server, you'll have to add a "shebang" line as the first line of your
program. The shebang line looks like this:

  #!/home/ezra/links/links --config=config

Where /home/ezra/links/links is the path to your Links interpreter,
and config is a configuration file.

The configuration file can contain a number of name=value pairs. It
is important that jsliburl is set to the base url for the javascript
library. Each setting must appear on a separate line, and white space
is significant.

DATABASE SUPPORT

In order to use the database you need to copy Makefile.config.sample
to Makefile.config, and fill in the path to the appropriate OCaml
database library. Then you need to rebuild links with

 make nc

Refer to the examples directory for instructions on priming the
databases. The examples all use getDatabaseConfig() in order to read
the database configuration from the configuration file. The settings
'database_driver' and 'database_args' should be included in the
configuration file.

database_driver can take the values

  postgres, mysql or sqlite

database_args is only relevant for postgres and mysql. It takes the
form
 
  host:port:user:password
